# Final Project
## Overview
For my final project I decided to create a simple game, and because Pacman has always been one of my favorite games I wanted to create a game that resembled it.  I felt that it would be too difficult for me to create a clone of Pacman so I decided to make a version that did not include the maze.  In order to complete this project the steps that I needed to complete were: creating shapes that represent Pacman, the ghosts, and the pellets that pacman eats, making Pacman move continuously in a direction after an arrow key had been pressed, making the ghosts move, making the pellets randomly appear somewhere on the canvas and move when Pacman contacts them, make Pacman reset and lose a life when he contacts the ghosts, and display the number of lives and the player's score.

## Beginning
I began this project by watching some of Dan Shiffman's videos on creating games with p5, specifically his snake game and his space invaders game.  I thought that each of these games would give me an understanding of how to create movement for my Pacman as well as create collision detection.  Taking inspiration from these videos, I created my canvas as well as classes for Pacman, the pellets, and each individual ghost (in retrospect I obviously should have created one master class for the ghosts).  I then linked each of these to my index.html file, created variables, and hoisted my classes to these variables.  At this point I began to work through the specifics of my classes.

## Pacman
In my Pacman class I began by creating a yellow arc that represented Pacman and then began to work on devloping movement. While following along with Shiffman's videos, I created a keyPressed function within my sketch.js file and caused each of the arrow keys to input a value into placeholder methods for my Pacman class, setXDir and setYDir.  I then created methods within my Pacman class called setXDir, setYDir, moveX, and moveY as well as properties for the x and y positions and directions.  Inside of my setXDir and setYDir methods I caused them to recieve an input when a key is pressed and to set the x or y direction to be positive or negative resepectively.  I also made sure that the y direction was set to 0 when Pacman is moving horizontally and vice versa so that Pacman would not move on diagonals.  I then used the moveX and moveY methods to add the direction that is input to Pacman's x or y coordinate.  I also created a simple wrap function within the Pacman class, causing the x or y coordinate to change from the window width or height to 0 or vice versa, when Pacman contacted the edges of the canvas.

At this point Pacman would move when the arrow keys were pressed but continued to face the same direction.  I tried to resolve this by using the rotate function with no success.  I ended up getting help from a friend that has a solid amount of experience with javascript and he helped me to use an object literal in order to store values for the start and end points of my arc.  I then added the property values for each direction to the keyPressed function within my sketch.js file so that the arc representing Pacman would change direction anytime that Pacman changed direction.

I then created a death method which reset Pacman's position, movement, and the direction that he was facing.  Within my sketch.js file I created an if statement that ran Pacman's death method if he contacted one of the ghosts.

## Ghosts
I created four ghost classes that were representative of the four ghosts from the original Pacman, Inky, Blinky, Pinky, and Clyde. As I have previously said, if I was going to do this project again I would definitely create a single class for the ghosts, and have each individual ghost as an object inside of that class.  Anyway, I began by creating four rectangles that were filled with the corresponding color to the ghosts from the original game. I then positioned the first ghost to be 1/5 of the window width, the second to be 2/5, etc.  At this point I wanted to create motion for the ghosts, which I expected to be the most challenging part of the project.  In order to solve this issue, I essentially copied my setDir method from my Pacman class, but had the movement speed be 1 pixel per frame slower than Pacman's.  I then went to my sketch.js file and created random number generator that would select a whole number from 1 to 4 after a certain frame count.  Each of these numbers corrisponded to the four possible directions that the ghosts could move in.  I decided that I should make the ghosts movement be unique to each ghost so I made the frame count that decided when the ghosts would change direction different between each ghost.  I also decided to make Blinky try to follow Pacman by making the directonal values that could be chosen only be in the direction of Pacman.  So if Pacman is above and to the right of Blinky, then Blinky would be limited to choosing up or right as the direction to move in.  I also created wrap methods and death methods for each ghost that were essentially the same as Pacman's, simply wrapping the ghosts from one edge of the canvas to the other or resetting the positions of the Ghosts.

## Dots
The dots that Pacman eats were fairly simple to create.  I created small white ellipses with coordinates that were randomly chosen anywhere on the canvas within 10 pixels from the edges.  I created a method that would update the location to another random location on the canvas which was run everytime Pacman contacted one of the dots or contacted one of the ghosts.

## Display
I created a simple display for the player's number of lives and their score which I placed in the upper left hand corner of the canvas.  I also created a variable called 'gameStarted' which designated whether or not the player had started the game. This variables value starts as false and becomes true when the player presses the mouse while it is within the rectangle that I created to represent the start button.  I also added text within this rectangle to designate that it was for the purpose of starting the game.  At this point I decided to hide the cursor while the game was in progress and change the cursor arrow to a hand when it was hovering above the start button.

## Conclusions
This project was very enjoyable and helped me to develop a better understanding of the process that goes into professional projects.  While this game is far from ideal, I feel that the process of creating allowed me to understand what I could do better in the future.  I attempted to integrate sound into this project, but all of my attempts resulted in the game breaking with numerous errors.  I plan on coming back to this project after the semester has finished and cleaning it up for the sake of practice.
