# Week 4 Homework
## Summary
For the assignment this week I created a self portrait.  I felt that the ability to control opacity and rotation presented an opportunity to experiment with layering different images.  The idea behind my self portrait was to convey different layers of myself through the different simplistic shapes that I am able to generate through p5.  Each layer has a different level of opacity, and is angled 45 degrees off of the previous layer.

## Self Portrait
I began my self portrait by creating a simple smiley face based on the method that was shown on the class website.  I then added a simple rectangle with rounded corners for the body.  After this I duplicated the code for the head and body and rotated it by 45 degrees, then adjusted the positions of the head and body until they were in the appropriate location.  I then changed the color of the head and body using the color picker package.  Next I altered the eyes to be larger and replaced the arc mouth with a group of lines. I repeated the steps to duplicate, rotate, fill, and position my shapes in order to create my final character, but then added a quad which overlapped the circle in order to make it look more like a skull.

## Issues
I ran into a couple of issues this week, but I was able to figure them out by experimenting with my code.  Most of the issues that I ran into involved the 'jawbone' shape that I created as part of the last character's head. One such issue was that I used the noStroke() function in order to remove the stroke on the 'jawbone' but this also made all of lines below it in the code invisible.  I fixed this by replacing noStroke() with strokeWeight(0) which allowed me to change the stroke weight afterwards in the code.  I also had to make the 'jawbone' completely solid in order to cover the stroke of the circle and rectangle underneath it, but this caused the color to be slightly off from the rest of the character; I was able to fix this issue by experimenting with the color picker package.  Because the 'jawbone' was actually a quad, if I gave it a stroke it covered parts of the circle that was meant to be the head.  In order to fix this I got rid of the stroke on the quad and created lines that served as a stroke for the parts of the quad that were not overlapping with the circle.
