# Week 10 Homework
## Summary
For this week's assignment I decided to rework one of my past projects by utilizing functions.  I chose to use my assignment from week 6 as I thought that it was the most applicable for the use of functions.  This project originally had a triangle that changed size based on the y coordinate of the cursor, and a background that changed its red and blue values based on the mouse position and changed its green value randomly.  In the process of reworking this assignment I decided to create four triangles instead of one, as the use of funtions made it extremely easy to do so.

## Background Specifics (Original Explanation of the Background Color Change)
First I created four variables that controlled the background color: bgr, bgg, bgb, and bggChange.  I used the modulo operator to assign bgr and bgb to the cursor X and Y positions respectively.  I then created the line 'bgg += floor(random(-bggChange - 1,bggChange + 2));' in order to make the green value of the background randomly shift between higher and lower values.  I also constrained the green value to be at least 1 and no higher than 255, so that it would not become totally absent.

## Triangle Specifics
I created six variables for the triangle; each variable represented either the X coordinate or the Y coordinate for each point of the triangle.  I then created a variable, triChange, that represented the amount of movement that each variable had and assigned it to be one fifth of the Y coordinate of the cursor.  I then assigned each triangle variable to move based on the Y coordinate of the cursor.  I put all of this inside of a function called 'drawTriangle' which took four inputs: posX, posY, scaleX, and scaleY.  Then in my draw function, I used the drawTriangle function to create four triangles; one was at the orignal position and scale of the triangle from the original project, and the other three were scaled down by half and positioned next to each edge of the larger triangle.
